Added ATOCA description to extract1d RtD page (#9484)
spacetelescope/jwst: docs/jwst/extract_1d/description.rst

Extraction for NIRISS SOSS Data
-------------------------------
For NIRISS SOSS data, spectral orders 1 and 2 overlap slightly at longer wavelengths, so a specialized extraction

> algorithm known as ATOCA (Algorithm to Treat Order ContAmination, Darveau-Bernier et al., 2022) is used. This routine

Reviewer: I still think it would be good to include a link to the paper

constructs a linear model of each pixel on the detector and treats the underlying incident spectrum as a free variable
to simultaneously extract the cross-contaminated spectra. Using this method, the extracted spectra are accurate to
within 10ppm over the full spectral range when validated against simulations.

The algorithm uses a wavelength solution, a spectral throughput, a spectral resolution, and a spatial throughput for
both orders to determine the flux contribution from each order falling on a given pixel. Most of these references are
determined by analysis of on-sky data and supplied to the algorithm via the `pastasoss` and `spec_profile` reference
files. The exception is the `spec_kernel` reference file which supplies the convolution kernels used in the extraction,

> determined from monochromatic PSFs generated by WebbPSF. The `pastasoss` reference file predicts the trace centroids,

Reviewer: Thanks for checking with folks.  I agree it's good to keep the name up-to-date with what the repository is currently called, even if the version that generated it was Formerly Known As webbpsf

Extraction for NIRISS SOSS Data
-------------------------------

> For NIRISS SOSS data, spectral orders 1 and 2 overlap slightly at longer wavelengths so a specialized extraction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For NIRISS SOSS data, spectral orders 1 and 2 overlap slightly at longer wavelengths, so a specialized extraction
```

> algorithm known as ATOCA (Algorithm to Treat Order ContAmination, Darveau-Bernier et al., 2022) is made available in
> the ``extract_1d`` step. This routine constructs a linear model of each pixel on the detector and treats the underlying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
algorithm known as ATOCA (Algorithm to Treat Order ContAmination, Darveau-Bernier et al., 2022) is used. This routine constructs a linear model of each pixel on the detector and treats the underlying
```

Author: This is fine. I said "made available" since it can be turned off but since it is the default, let's stick with "used".

incident spectrum as a free variable to simultaneously extract the cross-contaminated spectra, which are accurate to

> 10ppm over the full spectral range.

Reviewer: it's a bit unclear to me what the accuracy of 10 ppm refers to - is this the uncertainty in the input data, the tolerance that ATOCA was designed to, the total uncertainty in the decontaminated spectra, the uncertainty added by ATOCA...?

both orders to determine the flux contribution from each order falling on a given pixel. Most of these references are
determined by analysis of on-sky data and supplied to the algorithm via the `pastasoss` and `spec_profile` reference
files. The exception is the `spec_kernel` reference file which supplies the convolution kernels used in the extraction,
determined from monochromatic PSFs generated by WebbPSF. The `pastasoss` reference file predicts the trace centroids,
taking into account the small rotations of the trace introduced by the slight visit-to-visit offsets of the GR700XD
grism in the optical path.

Having constructed a model of the intensity at each pixel using the reference file inputs, a chi-square minimization is
used to fit the pixel model to the observations, weighted by the uncertainty. However, since a solution to this system
of equations is highly degenerate, a Tikhonov regularization (Tikhonov 1963) is performed. The goal here is to find the
smoothest solution for the flux that fits the observations within the measured uncertainties.

The resulting spectral trace solutions are actually at a higher resolution than the observed data since an oversampled

> wavelength grid is used by the ATOCA algorithm for decontamination. These results are then reconvolved onto the native

Author: Yes, the paper actually says convolved so I stuck with it.

wavelength grid before the 1D spectra for each order are extracted.

> There are a number of keyword arguments accessible to the user to customize the ``extract_1d`` for SOSS data.

Reviewer: I think this section could be removed because it should be redundant with https://jwst-pipeline.readthedocs.io/en/latest/jwst/extract_1d/arguments.html 

I'd suggest having a look there and making whatever updates to the soss arguments you see fit

Author: Sure thing. Yeah, it's definitely redundant so I'll just take it out.
